How do we feed our boa constrictor, and what
do we feed our boa
constrictor?
From the time they are born to the time that
they're old
senior citizens, boa constrictors are carnivorous.
Because these guys are
carnivorous and because we need to be able
to find a common food source,
the best thing to do is we all will feed them
mice.
A well-fed mouse is
fully nutritional for these guys.
They eat the whole mouse.
When they're
smaller, you can feed what's called Pinkies,
which is a newborn mouse.
The
way you figure out how much you should feed,
or what you should feed, is
dependent on the size of the snake.
You should never feed anything larger
than the largest diameter of the snake.
That's a good rule.
How do we feed them?
Most of the time, these guys will take care
of it on
their own, but when you get your new snake,
you have to remember that he's
nervous.
Let him enjoy his terrarium and get comfortable
with his
environment for several days before you try
to feed him.
Be very conscious
of where you feed him, because if you have
sand or a substrate, woodchips,
which you really should never use, anything
that can stick to the bait;
when he eats it, he'll also eat that substrate
and it can cause
obstructions, and that is very, very serious.
Sometimes, if the substrate in your terrarium
is such that it sticks, you
can do one of several things: You can either
put the bait in a small cup
and bury it down to the level of the terrarium,
and the snake will come and
get it.
Or move the snake out of the terrarium and
feed it in another spot.
Sometimes, especially as they get larger,
that's a good thing.
Because a
snake learns when it's going to eat, and sometimes
its energy level can get
up.
When you're reaching into the terrarium, it's
thinking it's time to eat
and there's a greater chance that you may
get nipped.
How do we feed them?
Snakes like this; they really hunt more from
smell,
touch, and heat sensation than they do vision.
Their tongues, as they come
out, will actually take little particles,
and when it comes back into the
mouth, will contact what's called the vomeronasal
apparatus or Jacobson's
organ.
That helps them get a sensation of, or olfactoin
of, what's out
there.
Then they have these small little pores called
pit glands around
their lips.
What they do is they actually sense infrared
heat.
It's a
thermal regulatory thing to where they actually
can see heat.
It's almost
like the Predator in the movies, where he
saw the little red thing.
That's
exactly what they're doing; they're picking
up the heat and they'll strike
at it.
You never want to hold your mouse.
Sometimes it needs to move a little bit.
What you do is get longer tongs.
For your smaller snakes, about 10 to 12
inches is fine.
For your bigger ones; about 16 inches.
You'll put the mouse
in the tongs, present it headfirst to this
guy.
Sometimes wiggling it is
good.
Sometimes when you present it to them, they'll
know immediately what
to do and they'll eat.
Sometimes you'll get a snake that is used
to eating
one thing, and here you are trying to feed
another.
It's a good idea, say
if this guy was used to eating anything else,
a bird, or something of that
nature, what you do is actually rub the scent
of the bait that they're used
to eating onto the mouse, and then present
it to them.
Through that little
tongue and the Jacobson's organ, they will
sense the scent of their older
bait and they'll take the mouse.
That's how you feed your boa constrictor.